# How to learn in the age of fast food

It's Sunday and after waking up late she decides to cook some frozen croissants
for brunch. Her dog wants to play so she takes him to a park with her car, and
while he runs she checks Instagram. Back at home she buys a pair of shoes and
some books on Amazon that will be delivered next week. She invites some friends
over, orders pizza and they eat it while watching a movie on Netflix.

That sounds like a great day, but did you notice that this fictional person
managed fulfill all her needs and desires without exerting any effort from her
part?

None of the things she did are outrageous. We could do any of them and, money
aside, the hardest part would be deciding what we want. It's not a matter of
whether we _can_ have what we want anymore.

We live in the age of instant satisfaction, where our heart's desires are one
click away. From food delivered to our doorstep, to clothing, entertainment and
even human connection, they're all for sale.

But having access to instant gratification makes us seek unique, tailored
experiences. Something that is truly ours and no one else's.

There are few things more valuable in a world of commodities than knowledge, and
even though information is also a commodity noawdays, the ability to learn
cannot be purchased.

The learning process is messy and complicated but there are proven methods that
make us better at it. I'll explain the most important ideas and techniques that
help me learn anything I want.

By the end of this article you'll be better equipped to learn anything you want.

## 10 thousand hours, or just 20. Your choice

You might have heard we need "10 thousand hours of deliberate practice to
achieve mastery" over a skill, from piano to swimming. This figure comes from a
series of studies and is generally true. What is not true is that we need vasts
amounts of time and effort to _learn_ something new.

TK

Being good is not the enemy of great. Anyone that is extraordinary at anything
was simply decent-enough at it at some point. I love aiming at being _good
enough_ in life. Most of the time it's, well, enough.

Another figure that's bounced around is that you need 20 hours to learn a new
skill. This may sound like too little time to learn anything, and I thought so
too, so I decided to try it out.

## Learning something new in 20 hours or less

First I learnt how to juggle. I've wanted to juggle since I was a kid but I
never started learning it. Once I did it took me maybe 10 hours to be really
good at it. I can juggle for a couple of minutes if I focus, and even do some
nifty tricks like two-person-juggling if I'm with a competent partner.

Then I learned to speed-read. Although I'm a bookwork, I'm also an average-speed
reader. I decided to change that and followed a book-course on speed reading. My
top speed was about 700 words per minute, or 3 times faster than average.
Nowadays I consistently read above average (although not as fast as 700 wpm). It
took me a bit more than 20 hours of practice, and I didn't finnish the course.

I'm learning piano now. Although I can't play a song yet, I can follow a simple
music sheet and be half-decent at it. I've practiced less than 20 hours so far.
I'm using an app that listens to what I do and gives me immediate feedback.

I've done these things during the last few years, whenever I really wanted to
learn something and put on the effort to finally do it. Which brings me to the
actual bread and butter.

## Simple rules to learn anything

### Change your mindset

First off is changing your mindset. Yes, you can learn something, even if it
seems really hard! Yes, becoming good at it can seem daunting, but it isn't,
take small steps! Yes, you'll have to take time from other worthy activies such
as binge watching or playing video games, but guess what? It's worth it, it's so
worth it.

Studies have proven time and time again that people with a "can-do" mindset are
more likely to be happy and successful. We all talk ourselves down, so start
small and believe you can do that one small first step.

### Put in the effort, don't over-think it

Did you know gym membership sales skyrocket in January? We all want to become
better versions of ourselves, but only the people that put in the effort manage
to do it.

In order to learn anything new, you need to put in the effort. The easier way to
do it is to _just get started_. Don't over-think it. If you want to learn to
code just google "Learn JavaScript" and get on cracking. Want to start juggling?
You got it, Google. Be a better cook? Google. Do a backflip? You know it. (I've
always wanted to do a backflip but I'm scared of going down that path)

### Create a habit out of it

This is by far the most important. Once you've chosen what you want to do and
talked yourself into doing it, you're probably bumped for getting started. The
motivation to go to the gym, or learn to code, or to continue learning anything
will only last so long, the secret ingredient for sticking to your goal for (at
least) 20 hours is creating a habit.

There many ways to create long lasting habits, for an in-depth look checkout my
review on [how to create habits](link), but these are some of the best ways I've
found.

### Connect your new activity to an established habit

I've never been able to do exercise consistently, so I decided that I can't have
a shower until I've exercised at least 5 minutes. This was a game changer.
Sometimes I don't do long sessions but I at least jump the rope for 5 minutes or
do some crazy quick workou. I end up feeling good about myself and not breaking
the habit.

By connecting your new activity to a habit you already have, you diminish the
risk of forgetting about it, and increase the motivation to do it. You get bonus
point if the habit it's crucial (such as having a shower) or pleasant.

I tend to listen to audio books while making dinner. I like cooking but I'm
tired after a long day of work, so in order to motivate myself to cool I've
connected making dinner to listening to a book, which I absolutely love.

### Setup a routine, the more repetitive the better

Our brains are wired to routines. If you repeat the same thing over and over it
will become part of you. Quite literally, your brain creates connections between
neurons for things you do, the more you repeat it the stronger the connections.

This is why breaking old habits is so hard, but it's also a great way to create
new habits. Try to go around your day without washing your teeth. You'll feel
uncomfortable all day because you have a strong habit of washing your teeth
daily.

In order to learn how to do something you need to practice repetedly. If you
study for 1 hour a day, make sure to do it 1 hour, every day, preferably at the
same time and in the same place.

### Start marking successes in a calendar

The first few times you start doing something you'll feel invincible and
motivated to see it throught the end. Sadly that feeling doesn't last long, so
using a calendar (physical is better) to mark the days you've practiced will
motivate you to continue. We're wired to want to continue winning streaks and we
hate breaking them.

The calendar is also a great reminder and helps you to keep you showing up. It
helps build a routine.

### Make your environment a habit-builder

I've been working remotely since 2019, and something I made sure when I started
was to have a separate office I used for working. I never work in the sofa, or
in the bed. Whenever I sit at my office my brain knows it's working time. If I
use the laptop in the sofa I feel I can relax and watch some videos instead.

I've taken this further. Since I only have one desk, I have to use it to play in
it as well, so I have a working laptop and a gaming laptop.

Separation of concerns applies to situations, locations and even your
surrounding. I've made it a habit that if I go to bed with my working laptop, it
means It's writing time. If I watch Youtube instead I have a nagging feeling in
my mind that I should be doing something else.

Breaking a habit is not pleasant, so take advantage of that.

## Putting it all togehter
