# My decade in review: from Venezuela to Europe and a 500% salary increase

I started the last decade as a fresh university student in Venezuela and
finished it working from the comfort of my home in Budapest for a remote first
company, with a 4 year old daughter crashing into every meeting to say hi to my
colleagues, a wife, a fat cat and a few hundred books somewhere in my brain.

This is a story of what I consider the most important events in my life for the
last 10 years, but it's also a story about learning the things in life that no
one teaches you but that everyone should know: how to get a job, get better
salaries, move to different countries and being a parent.

Everyone's path is different, and quoting Dan Abramov's decade in review that
inspired me to actually write this:

> Every person’s story is unique and not directly reproducible. I’ve benefited
> immensely from the privilege of being born in an upper middle class family
> (...) People took chances on me. Still, I hope that sharing my story can be
> helpful to compare our experiences. Even if our circumstances are too
> different, at least you might find some of it entertaining.

## But before starting, a bit of context:

I was born in Venezuela to an upper-class family, with a fully Venezuelan father
and an Italian mother. Although my mom was actually born in Venezuela, she
always thought of herself as Italian, and so did I. Her parents-nonnos as we
called them-moved to Venezuela in their 20s after World War 2. Back then
Venezuela was a poor country full of possibilities for hard working immigrants,
and my nonno became wealthy-and selfish-over the years.

I was raised by an unusual family that was neither Venezuelan nor Italian but
somewhere in-between. Eating amazing pasta every Sunday and calling traditional
Venezuelan dishes wrongly for most of my life. I didn't experience what being
Venezuelan was until I was a grown up.

## 2010: A fresh start in university and the love of my life

I _hated_ high school. Everyone, me included, was immature and I considered
nearly everyone in my class dumber than me (I was also childish). Starting in
the university I always wanted to study in was a amazing. My parent met there
and my few friends from school also chose the same university.

Education is Venezuela was great at the time, with many public universitires
giving free and top-notch education. You also got to choose which university to
go to, with a combination of your high-school grades and an university-given
entrance exam deciding whether you qualified or not. I chose an engineer
university and Informatics Engineering as my degree. I always loved computers
and was "the nerd" of the family.

I had _never_ coded up to that point in my life and this was a major point of
anxiety for me. I knew what electrical, industrial of civil engineering was, but
what the heck was programming about? After studying all summer vacation for the
university exam, I was qualified to join.

From the very first computer science class I fell in love with coding. I
remember studying for a whole weekend the basics of programming: variables and
loops. Every new lesson opened up a world of possibilites, made reality by the
assignments of creating tower defense games and simple accounting apps in C++.

This taught me the importance of _deliverate practice_. If you want to learn
something you have to practice and expand your limits. University helped me to
discover my love for teaching and mentoring by giving small talks and helping
out my fellow students before exams for free. I also realized that what was so
natural for me (understanding computers) was very challenging for others.

2010 was a defining year in my life, I learned about what makes me tick, my ONE
thing: coding and teaching. I've pursued both passions ever since, getting
better and better every year without pause.

## 2011: Life long friends and Math

While falling in love with coding, I also had a clash with math. My degree had 8
different maths in it, one or two for every single semester. Falling to pass the
math exams started to slow down my progress in my career-specific subjects.

In 2011 I also started to meet the people that would become my life long
friends. Out out of the 20 people I interact the most today, I met nearly half
of them in university and I still keep in touch with many of whom I don't chat
as often.

There must be millions of articles discussing the benefits of a university
degree versus being self-taught, and although I'm hugely self-taught, but to
this day I struggle to make good friends. It's hard to create a better
environment for friendship than a university campus: youth, a lot of free time,
similar discussion topics and a safe-to-explore enrivonment. If anything, my
university allowed me to make friends which despite being in multiple different
countries, I interact with daily.

I was also taking part in the first culinary school in my city, I was in the
first batch of students graduating later that year with the fanciest degree of
"International Culinary Chef". A completely useless piece of paper that I use to
make jokes at parties.

## 2012: Coding, mentoring, god dammit math!

I was lucky enough to be born in an upper-class family, with my mom being a
brilliant teacher and able to charge nearly as much as she wanted for teaching a
subject every student in the city failed at (financial economics). In 2012 she
decided we should go to Sicily, Italy, for vacation. For some reason she bought
tickets mid-term, so I said "fuck it", got on a plane, and left my girlfriend
and my ongoing university for a 2 months trip to burning-hot Sicily.

To no one's surprise, I failed nearly every test after coming back from
vacation. This also set a theme for my life: value experiences and a bit of risk
above the sure thing. My university course would continue being there after I
came back, and even though I failed my tests I got some beaitiful memories of
travelling across Agrigento's Greek ruins with my mom.

I also started my first-ever paid mentoring. Privately teaching about C++ to
clueless civil and electric engineers was a joy, and it paid well. In my free
time I continued to play 5+ hours a day of League Of Legends and complain about
how hard math was, while _actually studying_ for everything related to
programming and passing with flying colors.

My mom and sister decided to visit Italy that year, but this time I declined. It
had been great to visit and disregard my education, but I didn't want to fall
even more behind. To my dismay, the whole university went on strike for a reason
I can't remember, and after a couple of months of not doing much but play
video-games, I travelled to Miami, USA, to visit my auntie and cousins.

It was a fantastic opportunity to get a summer job and earn some money. I landed
the stereotypical latin-american-guy-without-a-working-permit gig: washing cars.
Earning 100\$ a day for a couple of weeks was great. I bought a new laptop and
when my university started working again I flew back home.

I want to make a point here: of all my circle of friends, I was _the only one_
able to travel like this. I was the only one I knew that wasn't an adult with a
credit card, which was necessary in order to travel. I was, as they say,
"privileged. I had a mother that was never content with our status and wanted
for us to be better. She transmitted that burning desire onto me.

One night while walking on my own near my auntie's home, I realized just how
safe I felt. In Venezuela you couldn't walk at 10pm in the street without being
on edge, always paying attention to the danger at every corner. But here I was,
completely alone in a place I didn't know, late at night and without being
afraid for my safety. That night I swore to myself I'd leave Venezuela for good.

## 2013: A country falling apart, heartache and a real job

A constant in my life from 2010 to 2013 were two things: my girlfriend which was
an amazing girl I chased for the better part of 2009 and 2010, and the rapid
deterioration of Venezuela's economy.

In 1998 Hugo Chavez was elected president with promises of economic reformation,
scrutiny of corruption and improvement to social welfare. He won by a landslide
and continued to have huge support mainly by the middle-to-low class. Slowly but
steadily he managed to reform the government and the laws to give him more and
more power, which he used to enrich himself and his allies as well as to pursue
a vision of communism sugar-coated as "Socialism of the 21st century".

With close ties to Cuba's Fidel Castro, Chavez managed to turn a once-rich
country into his personal puppet. Transforming entire private companies into
government-owned at a wim. While Venezuela's most important export, oil
production, decreased due to lack of maintenance and bad management, the
government continued to fund socialist and communist candidates across of Latin
America, causing Chavez to be a major reason why it became such a hot-pot of
hyper-left presidents.

With an economy and a country turning sour, I started to feel ever more stressed
and anxious about my future. For me there was no sign of Chavez losing an
election and the country improving, on the contraty everything seem to be
getting worse by the day. Food and petrol shortages were a daily sight.

During this time I still in university, but since I had to pass some subjects
(math!) in order to open up new ones, I started working with my girlfriend's
brother making pizza for his restaurant. The half Italian part of my paid off!
Eventually, after about 3 years being together we broke up, and so my longest
relation to date ended.

I continued to study (and to play League Of Legends, of course) and one day a
friend came-literally-nocking on my classroom's door. He asked me if I wanted to
work for some startup in the city. The pay was good and I wasn't making pizzas
anymore so I met with them for an interview and got the job.

The startup was an education platform with video courses that aimed at teaching
specific subjects. Think Egghead or Lynda.com and they paid by the hour of
final, edited course.

It took me almost a month to finish a 4 hour long course, which wasn't worth it
at all for the money. But then I did about 8 hours in a month, then 14, and I
reached about 22 hours of video courses a month by the time I was leaving. This
is remarkable because I was creating more courses than anyone else and sometimes
more than two or three people combined. I also learned how to use the whole
Adobe Suite which is what my courses were about.

This lead to couple of discoveries: absolute focus is crucial to stedily grow
and improve performance and the importance of iteration.

The difference between my first month working there and the months thereafter
was my focus. At first I was doing the courses while having distractions around
me. Afterwards I shut aboslutely everything off and didn't go out of the
recording cubicle until I had finished X amount of recordings. I also got better
at doing them and I was _constantly_ experimenting to find ways to record
better, faster and with higher quality. This once again connects to _deliverate
practice_. I was always practicing how to make better courses.

## 2014: The biggest decision of my life

### First half of 2014: leaving the homeland for good

Working for this startup was one of the best times in my life. I loved going to
work every day, the creative juices in that office were overflowing. Someone's
comment about blogging inspired me to start writing my own blog, and that's how
**obedparla.com** was born! Out of my desire to share my thoughts with the world
and a coworker's comment about blogging.

Not everything was rosy though, Venezuela's situation was getting worse, and in
February the perfect storm hit my city. A university student was raped by the
gobernor's bodyguard, which led to protests from students. My university soon
joined the protests, and before anyone knew, the whole city was ablaze in
"peaceful riots" with the signature move of blocking streets and burning car
wheels.

TM add image of the guarimbas

This came about the same time as Ukraine's riots were at its peak, and the
videos shown from them were a motivation and inspiration to my city's rebels. It
became a sign of pride to be part of this protests which became known as
"guarimbas". They paralized the city for months and became a deciding factor in
an idea I've been musing for a long time: leaving Venezuela for good.

My family had been talking about leaving the country for as long as I can
remember. With my Nonno complaining about how backwards the country was, how
much better life had been in Italy, and for God's sake the only pasta worth a
penny was my Nonna's or Italy's. My mom mused over it for years, but especially
after divorcing my father when I was 10, was probably too scared to do it with
two children.

So although no one ever left, it was ingrained my brain that leaving was
_expected_ of us, somehow. One day while talking with my mom we decided to buy
tickets to Italy. We'd make it a vacation and a way for me to try to find a job
and stay in Europe.

Saying that it was a vacation was nothing but psycological safety for me. I was
_terrified_ of leaving. I'm usually very easy-going, but the few months prior to
that July trip were nerve breaking. My father advised me to finish my degree
before leaving, some people cheered me for it and others tried to convince me
otherwise. My mom was supportive all along.

Fast foward to today, nearly everyone I know has left Venezuela, but back in
2014 I was one of the first packing his bags. I'm lucky to be of Italian
decendancy. A passport, which is nothing but a few pieces of fancy paper, opened
up the world to me, and literally Europe's doors.

In July 2014 I boarded a plane from Venezuela and landed in Sicily, Italy with
my mom. I wouldn't come back to Venezuela until 2019, to see my mom one last
time.

### Second half of 2014: finding my feet in a new country

Once in Europe the plan was to find a job. I wasn't even dreaming about working
as an engineer, I simply wanted something to sustain myself with. I have a big
family in a small town in Sicily, but there's not much to do there and after a
summer job a cousin offered me to go to Malta, where he was living. Once again I
packed all my beloging, which at that point sit in a big luggage and set off.

In Malta I must've had half a dozen jobs in 6 months, from waiter to Sushi
maker, until finally finding a full-time job at customer service in 2015. In
hindsight it took me a terribly long time to find a proper job, it shouldn't
have been longer than a couple of months! But it was my first time living in
another country, especially somewhere as different as Europe.

This is when I realized _I had no idea how the real world worked_. I didn't know
how to look for a job, make a Curriculum Vitae or Resume, write a cover letter,
rent a place or get an ID. I thought I didn't have any skills, which was
incredibly untrue. I was struck my the impostor syndrome in its strongest form
and I didn't even know what impostor syndrome was back then.

By 2014 I had 3 years of solid coding experience under my belt, a year and a
half of professional chef experience, and more experience using Photoshop and
Illustrator than most junior designers. None of that mattered because I had no
idea how to approach the job market, what companies were looking for, or how to
market and sell myself. Worst of all, I didn't know my value and didn't look for
a mentor to help me out.

I've always, for good or bad, liked to do things on my own. I've learned
everything I know on my own and achieved everything without asking for much
help. The main reason being that I rarely feel I know anyone with experience in
my situation to ask for help. I didn't _think_ I knew anyone that had moved
across continent. However, I did know smart people. I could've asked my previous
company's CEO or CTO for advice, both of which had lived abroad and done many
types of jobs and were my friends. I shouldn've reached out to my dad, which had
more than two decades of experience and a solid career. Instead I chose to
struggle alone and find things out for myself.

If there's a lesson I learned from this is to ask for help and to focus on your
strengths. Since then I've made it my mission to help anyone I know that is
struggling to find his feet, and thankfully have been contacted by friends
asking for advice. Being the first to do something challenging and come out on
top gives you not only the experience of doing it but the duty to help others in
similar situations. **Once at the top, send the lift down.**

The single most important thing I did in 2014 was to dance salsa. Stay with me.
One day a friend invited me to go to a free salsa class, since I like dancing I
accepted. I ended up meeting the woman that would become my wife and help me
raise the most amazing daughter. Two months later I moved in with her (or should
I say, she accepted me in), since I had misunderstood my Italian flatmates and
found myself without a place to live and nowhere else to go.

## 2015: an emotional roller coaster

### Surprise! We're going to have a baby!

I wasn't prepared to be a father and the news sent me into some sort of
emotional shock. I don't remember much of the months following the news. I find
it strange to say _months_ because it felt like a few weeks max to me but my
wife tells me it was months of me not talking. I do remember being a sort of
zombie for a while, never knowing what to say.

Humans are resilient and incredibly adaptable. After a while I got used to the
idea of having a baby and started focusing more on myself and what to do in this
new world, with a baby on the way. I didn't even have a job at the time.

### Trippling my salary: from 5k to 15k

Summing all the odd jobs I was doing, I must've been earning 400€ a month or so,
5k a year. Thinking back, I had papers and a few skills, earning that much for
so long was crazy, but we don't know what we don't know.

I eventually found a full time job as a customer service agent that payed 15k a
year, incredibly better compared to my gigs so far! All I had to do was
transition into the proper workforce.

The job was fun at first and I was grateful for it, but the repetitive work, bad
schedules, and night shits started consuming my soul and making me seriously
sleep-deprived. I was feeling tired all the time.

I wanted to do something better, something to do with coding and creating
things. So I did a 40 hour WordPress course, learned the basics of HTML, CSS and
a bit of JavaScript, and transitioned this blog from free WordPress themes to a
custom one. My very first experience with web development was exilirating, so
much power! I could style things!

At that point I didn't know that frontend world was so massive. I spent
countless hours googling what programming language to learn, which ones were
most in demand. For some reason I never came across the most obvious answer:
just learn JavaScript! I was lucky enough to love the web and drift towards it.

As my soul continued to leave my body (night shift should be illegal), I started
doing some freelance jobs, creating websites under my "web agency". I made 3 or
4 of them in about 6 months and earned 1.5k or so.

And I continued to read. A great benefit of being a customer service agent is
that your mind is never tired. Doing repetitive work doesn't drain your brainy
juices. I read every free minute I had, and 2015 was my best book-year ever,
with nearly 70 books read. That's more than a book a day! TM add link to
goodreads.

Another of my aunties, a fantastic doctor, visited us before our daughter was
born. She stayed with us for a couple of weeks and it was great to see family
after a year of being in a new country.

### The happiest day in my life

Mothers start loving their baby from the moment they feel it in their bodies,
perhaps before. I think for fathers is quite different. You can love the idea of
your child, but it's hard to love something you don't see, or know.

The instant my daughter was born, I loved her. I could feel my brain rewiring in
real time to forever love that child, as tears streamed down my face and I
didn't dare blinking let I miss an moment of seeing my daughter. It was the most
amazing feeling I've ever felt.

It's _really_ hard to explain what happened in those moments, but I felt as if
my whole life had suddenly changed and I had become a different person. Like if
a veil had been lifted from the world and now I could see. It was the purest
sense of joy. I can't actually remember the happiness, everything I remember was
my reaction to it. A part of my brain was thinking "this is amazing, I never
thought any of this was humanly possible".

My brain was quite literally on drugs. I don't know if there's any research on
this but parent's brains must be chemically rewired during childbirth. There's a
kill-switch hidden somewhere in our biology that triggers at the sight of our
offspring.

We called her Lorett. She's amazing and 4 years later I love her even more than
the day she was born.

The rest of 2015 was discovering the joys of being a father. To my surprise and
enjoyment I was great at being a dad. It was amazing. I had been abdupted by my
own-self and domesticated, and made happier than ever!

## 2016: learning more than ever before

The first half of 2016 was uneventful. I continued to read books, watch movies
during nightshifts and work on side projects to have a portfolio.

I don't remember when, but at some point I decided I'd get a job as a developer
no matter what. It was the last step I needed to take. I started polishing my
CV, applying for positions and talking to recruiters. I got more interviews than
I expected, and accepted the first offer I got. In hindsight I could've find a
much better job, but I didn't know that yet.

I started on August using PHP and JavaScript, and I learnt like crazy. It was
amazing to have a normal-schedule work in which I could do something I loved
doing. In a few months I knew more than what I've learned in the previous year.

My salary was now 21k a year, a 40% increase. I know 21k is super low for a
developer, but salaries in Malta weren't so high in 2016, and I didn't know I
could charge for more. I was super happy with a 30% increase. I continued to
work hard and learn a lot. I found out I enjoyed writing JavaScript much more
than PHP, so I dedicated myself to it.

Here are some lessons I learned the hard way:

- A degree doesn't define you, nor your knowledge. It's definitely useful, but
  especially in some careers it's more important what you know than a degree.
- You can have impostor symdrone without knowing it. I could've applied to dev
  jobs the day I got to Malta, but I didn't know there were _so many_ jobs and
  so little talent. I didn't know my worth.
- You need to talk to people that know more than you. Once I started talking to
  recruiters that knew the field, they helped a lot. I could've asked if it was
  possible to find a job with my current experience rather than wait 2 years to
  do it all on my own. I wasted so much precious time learning the basics.
- The most important thing: keep your goals in sight. I knew I would be a
  developer at some point, and I always worked towards it, bit by bit.
- A great way to get a better salary is to jump into a better career. Not always
  easy, but doable.

As I grew personally in 2016 my daughter outphased me. Babies grow so fast. Make
sure you take a lot of pictures, it's strange but you can't quite remember the
first few months of being with them. I've heard this being echoed by other
parents. I guess our drugged brain is doing some extra adjustments, maybe making
us forget how much sleep our little angels make us lose.

## 2017: Moving 5 floors up

The first half of 2017 was great. The salary bump had made us a bit more
comfortable with money and we didn't (mostly me) have to check where and how we
spent every euro. I was learning like crazy and felt super comfortable with
JavaScript and jQuery. I listened to many audio books on my 2 and a half daily
commute.

As I continued to learn I felt I outgrow the role I was and the project I was
working with. It was a legacy codebase and moving it forward with newer frontend
technologies like React, Angular or Vue was painful. I hadn't use any of them
either so I couldn't confidently spearhead the change either.

I was so interested in learning a JS framework though! I googled a lot and
decided React was the one. In early 2017 this wasn't as obvious as it is today,
Angular, especially in Malta was still going strong. I worked through the
fantastic
[The Road To Learn Read book](https://roadtoreact.com/course-details?courseId=THE_ROAD_TO_LEARN_REACT),
did a ["dicewars" game in React](https://github.com/obedparla/dicewars) which I
never finished but helped me really master React's state, and felt I was ready
to apply to a new job.

A few friends worked in this company situated 5 floors above my office, and said
how cool the company was. I applied to their first-ever dev position in Malta.
After landing the job and negotiating a bit, which consisted mostly of my
current company counter-offering for me to staying, and my future boss offering
me even more, I accepted and joined in September.

This taught me a lot about negotiating and that it wasn't as hard as I thought.
By the end of it I had an offer for 34k a year. A wooping 60% increase from my
current one of 21k. I was so incredibly happy about it.

A 34k a year salary for a dev isn't in a lot of places, but it was good in
Malta, especiallt when I had only 1 year of professional experience. At this
point I was feeling a lot more comfortable with myself and I learned a few
things I wish I had known when I landed in Malta:

- Developers don't know everything: I thought professional devs knew so much
  more than I did after 3 years of university. I couldn't have been more wrong.
  We're all just learning on the job. We gain experience and learn to do things,
  but I never imagined Googling stuff was going to be a major part of my daily
  routine as an engineer.
- Most people have _no idea_ of what they're doing: the more I work, the more I
  learn more people, in most companies, don't really know how to do their jobs.
  We're all doing our best, some of us care and some others not as much. I
  thought companies were tight organizations with everyone pulling in the same
  direction. The truth is far from it.
- Companies still work and make money despite it all: with a few exception, most
  companies make money and grow without _the best people_. They all say they
  hire the best though, which isn't true at all. The good thing is: the more
  experienced you are, the more you can affort to work only for companies that
  _do know_ what they're doing, and the more you learn how to tell good ones
  from bad ones.
- It's all about the team: usually, you won't be working for or with the whole
  organization. You work _for_ and _with_ a team of people. Your experience of
  any given company will be strongly influenced by the team you join, and by the
  manager you get. Some great companies have bad teams, and some mediocre
  companies have great teams in it.
- Your environment matters more than you think: some people will thrive in
  hyper-competitive environments, others in supportive ones. There are
  individual contributors, leaders, team-centric colleagues. Don't judge people
  based on their current performance, including yourself. **We all try our very
  best**. Be kind and consider you, or them, might no be in the best environment
  for you to thrive, if that's the case, consider changing your environment.

The rest of 2017 is a blurr of meeting awesome people in an awesome team and
working on cool projects without much guidance or proper goals. I was learning
like crazy once more, I started using React full time, finally, alongside Node
and things I didn't know I had to learn up to that point.

I hadn't seen my mom in 3 year, so I bought her a plane ticket and she visited
for a couple of months, so got to meet her grandfaughter, which turned 2 when
she was with us. It was great to see her again after so long.

## 2018: friends, challenges and free food.

I feel way too many things happened in 2018, none of which are incredibly
important but when put together made the whole year quite remarkable.

I became part of a team working on multiple projects, changing priorities and
overall trying to figure out shit out. Learning how to work as a unit is a bit
highlight of 2018, as well as how to deal with _incredibly_ difficult coworkers.
This is one of those situations in which no matter how many books I read on the
topic, having a hands-on experience on very difficult situations made me learn
more than I ever could.

I'm strangely grateful for having had so many issues, in hindsight they form a
coherent picture of mistakes made and I love learning from mistakes. They made
me a better team player and helped me understand what people and team I like to
be surrounded with, what management to look for or avoid and what happens to
companies (and people) when incentives change dramatically.

Some hard-truths I learned during this time:

- When in a team, judge people by their output: words are meaningless and can be
  crafted in such a way as to deceive us, but output can't be faked. Output can
  be seen as actions in other situations.
- Be kind, but not too kind: kindness is so important in every path of life, but
  if you feel you have to try too hard to be kind, there's a bigger problem that
  needs to be dealt with.
- You gotta be good at politics: I rather focus on delivering good work than
  office-politics, but sometimes in order to do the former you gotta do the
  latter. When in conflict, being on the sidelines does nothing but make things
  more difficult. You have to be good at politics, choose a side, and work
  towards a resolution.

It might sound like 2018 was a challenging year, in some ways it was, but it
also was the best of times since moving abroad. I had a great job, great friends
and some amazing views TM pics of Valleta office. I'm not the best as making
friends, and after 4 years in Malta I had finally made really good friends,
which happened to be my coworkers. I laughted more with them than I had in
years.

In April I bacame a mentor at Thinkful, an american bootcampp teaching people
how to become Web Developers. I love teaching and this was an amazing
opportunity to become better at it. I also learned about them and got my first
foot into the door thanks to a colleague in my team. It was super fun a some
extra income, which was nice.

In December I had my salary review and now with more than two years of
experience under my belt, I asked for an increase. I had learnt three important
lessons:

- **Investigate your market value:** recruiting is a huge business and it's
  usually in their best interest for hires to get paid as much as possible. Big
  recruitment agencies tend to publish yearly statistics of salaries for
  different positions and levels of expertise. Through these, I discovered my
  34k salary was too low and that I should ask for more.
- **Ask for more than you feel comfortable asking:** Try to start off with a
  salary you'll feel comfortable with in 6 months. Especially when joining in
  the second half of the year, where you'll get your salary review more than 12
  months later.
- **It's easier to ask for money when joining a company than it is once
  inside:** companies have tight promotion budgets. They can only increase
  employees wage's so much. The budget for hiring tends to be a lot more loose.
  Ask big when joining, you might not have the opportunity again.

For Christmas we flew to the US to meet with my family. I hadn't seen my auntie
and cousins since 2012, and my mom and sister also flew there. It was great to
see everyone together. Christmas night was amazing, with my mom dancing salsa
with us and my daughter having the time of her life.

## 2019

This year was one of the longest of my life. Maybe it hasn't been enough time
for me to process everything that happened in 2019, but as the meme says, 2019
was a bitch of a year, great things happened, terrible things happened.

### First Quarter

In January I got great news: my increase had been approved. I got 10k extra a
year for a total of 44k. That's more than a 30% increase, which is rare when not
changing positions or company.

Earning 44k really improved our quality of life. We didn't have to worry about
going out to eat from time to time as much, and as my salary got better our
spendings didn't grow as much. I'm a huge fan of having a "rainy day" fund, I'd
find out how important money would become soon.

During Christmas we had discussed my mom's coming operation. She had beaten
cancer in the past and needed a preventive surgery. We didn't think much of it
back then. My sister would stay with her in Venezuela for a while and then go
back to Aruba, her place of residence for the last 6 years.

Things went downfall from then on. Her operation didn't go as planned, after
multiple complications and more surgery, she was in a very delicate state. I
wasn't aware of how bad it was, since my sister was extremely positive she'd
recover, but my doctor auntie warmed me of how severe the situation was. She had
to go to intensive care.

I got on a plane as soon as I could, flew 18 hours, across 5 airports and 4
countries, met with my dad that picked me up in the Colombian border with
Venezuela, and after walking through the Colombian city looking for medicines
that didn't exist in my city, crossed the closed border. I arrived in my city
more than 30 hours after leaving Malta.

Since I left, Venezuela had only gotten worse. There were no medicines, food
prices had skyrocketed to the point of everything being even more expensive than
in Europe but people earning 20 dollars _a month_. My city looked like a lawless
ghost town. A bleak mirage of its former self.

I hadn't imagined how bad my mom was. A week or so before we had spoken via
mobile and now she needed a machine to help her breath and constant observation.
I could see it in her eyes she was extremely happy and a bit worried to see me.
Why would her son cross the world if things were going to be ok? But knowing
her, she cared more about my safety in Venezuela than her own self.

We stayed outside intensive care every day, all day. Us being there didn't make
any different, but we were close to her that way. Everyone knew where to find us
at any time, and as a private clinic they had electric plants that ran for days,
which was necessary since the electricity went out every day across the city,
from a few hours at a time to entire days. We also had steady internet, another
luxury most people didn't have.

While being there the bills started to become a problem. Venezuela has a public
healthcare system, but going to a hospital in critical condition is a death
sentence, so we paid exorbitants amounts of money to keep our mother in the
safest hands we could. I spent all my savings during this time.

I had opened up a GoFundMe while in Malta and people donated over 3 thousand
dollars to it. I was hesitant to do it, asking people for money feels like
taboo, but I thought what the heck, worst thing a few friends will give 10\$ or
something. I'm still grateful and amazed at how helpful and good willed people
can be when you're in need.

Every day and every moment we asked the same questions to ourselves: was she
looking better or worse than yesterday? What did she say? What did we say to
her? She couldn't talk due to having a breathing tube, but it's surprising how
much you can communicate only with your eyes and a few head movements.

My mom was the strongest person I've ever met. A wonderful woman that had been
through too many horrible things in her lifetime and always came up ahead. Her
love for her children trumped anything else. After being shot several times by a
thug, she said we were the only reason she stayed alive, and here she was yet
again, in the verge of dead, with nothing but us and the wonders of medicine
keeping her alive.

After several close calls in which intensive care saved her life, our auntie
called us one morning that we should head to the hospital. You hope it's not
what you expect, but you know. I was told she had passed away and entered the
ICU to say goodbye, while my brave sister screamed her heart out outside.

What broke my heart wasn't being told she had passed away by a sympatethic
nurse, or even seeing her, but taking my mom's rosary away from her bedside
table and holding it in my hands. It made it all too real. She loved praying,
and she was gone.

You know how people ask "what's your biggest fear?". I used to think about that
as a kid. My biggest fear was always losing my mom. I just tried to imagine how
could I ever live without her? She was the center of my world as a kid. I
usually ended up crying if I thought about it too much. I was a sensitive kid,
but aren't we all sensitive kids?

She had always told us to cremate her. She was clausthrophobic and the thought
of spending eternity in a box didn't fit her well. It was all very
unseremonoious. She never liked flashyness.

A few months ago we had been celebrating Christmas together, dancing salsa and
laughing, and all of the sudden she was just gone.

A few days later I said goodbye to the few friends I had left in Venezuela, to
my dad and sister, and flew back to Malta.

### Second Quarter

My wife and I had been talking about leaving Malta for years. It's a small
island with limited opportunities and things to do. There were a lot of things
we didn't like about the country as well, we simply wanted something better for
ourselves and our daughter.

As I kept thinking about my mom, we started planning our move. First I needed a
new job, and then decide where to go. I can recommend to move your whole life to
a new country as a good way to distract yourself.

I've always wanted to work remotely. I _love_ being at home and having full
control of my routine and habits, so I decided to try to find a remote-only job
as an engineer, all the pieces seemed to fit together perfectly. I was
experienced enough for such roles, had time to spend learning and applying, and
was about to move country, so location wouldn't matter!

It was a gruesome process. It was my first job hunt outside of Malta and for a
remote-only position, which are highly coveted. Over the course of two months I
applied to over 30 companies that met my criteria: could pay around 70k euros a
year, interesting product, interesting engineering team, and used the
technologies I wanted to work with.

I started the process extremely positive. I knew I could get a remote job. I'm
good at what I do. I had even started a (cool portfolio
piece)[https://dailyideas.app] prior to applying to have something to off my
skills, but by the end of it I was feeling insecure, innadecuate and thinking if
I was good enough.

I had to keep reminding myself of an important lesson I had learned: trust in
the plans and actions you took when in your best, and try to follow when in your
worst. Don't make hasty decisions when you're down or throw all your plans
overboard. Your better self made decisions with a better mindset, **trust your
better self**.

Out of the 30+ companies I applied to, I was contacted by around half, of which
I was turned down by 3 for "lack of experience / match", by 2 for lack of remote
experience, by 1 due to their salary budget, I turned 1 down because I didn't
like the product, and ghosted by a few others. At the end I got 2 offers.

Out of the two offers the choice was clear. Heetch seemed like an amazing
company to work for and it checked all the boxes. It was a tech company, solving
hard problems, with a really cool product. My would-be manager seemed to have
limitless energy and ideas for the team he was building. I was sold.

I accepted the job a few days after moving to Hungary, Budapest, where we've
been since June. The final salary was 62k plus some cool benefits. That was a
41% increase from my previous 44k salary.

### Third quarter

Moving to Budapest was great. The city is beautiful, the people are nice and
theres just _so much green_ everywhere. I grow up surrounded by mountains and I
had really missed that.

I started working at Heetch and started to discover the wonders of working from
home. I absolutely love it and I've learned a lot from it. Communication is very
different when you can't tap on someone's shoulder to ask a question. Heetch
itself is incredibly different from the companies I've worked on before. I even
made an article
[about my first week's experience](https://obedparla.com/thoughts/my-first-week-at-a-remote-first-company/).

I travelled to Paris during this time and fell in love with the city. It's the
city with the best vibe I've ever seen, with people filling the restaurants and
bars at _any time of day_ and the most good looking people I've ever seen. "The
city of love" is a well earned title.

### The last part of the decade

The rest of 2019 was, thankfully, more chill. Nothing major happened and yet it
felt like a lifetime. I can't imagine having to work in an office, or having
endless, meaningless meetings.

My daughter talks fluent Hungarian now and I can barely understand a few
sentences, but at least the lady in the bakery nearby knows I always buy their
amazing apple pies.

In December I went to my first conference ever and loved it. It was a great
experience and I got to see two of my friends from Malta. I decided to become a
conference speaker in 2020 as a result.

## From a boy to a man.

In 2010 I was a 17 year old boy finishing highschool, with no idea about the
world or what to do with my life, living in a country doomed to failure and with
a bit of an addiction to video games.

I would be so proud of myself if I had known that 10 years later I'd have a 4
year old daughter, lived in a vibrant European city, a great job, and a peaceful
life overall. Life is good and I'm happy of all the decisions I've taken (or not
taken) to get here. I'm sure a lot of it has been due to sheer luck, but I've
also worked very hard for everything I have.

If I have learned anything in the last 10 years is a simple thing, no matter how
cheesy it is, the most important thing is to believe in yourself. Had I not
believed in myself everything I've achieved would've been so much harder and
even impossible.

I'm lucky to be Italian and be able to live in Europe, to be white, to be
healthy and educated, but I also know a lot of people that as just as lucky or
even more and that don't use that luck for anything worthwhile. We are as good
as we hope to be. The only person we should compete with is ourselves.

Luck is when preparation meets opportunity. Let's see what this decade has in
store, and hopefully I'll be prepared for it.
