---
title : "Poem: What you have"
author : "Obed Marquez Parlapiano"
date : "2015-02-20"
categories : 
 - poems
tags : ""
cover : "../images/red-and-black-and-white.jpg"
---

_What you have_, insight of love.

_What you have_, inspiration for life.

That, _what you have_, that, what I desire, for I am not a human without the desire of you.

Those, who look at the world and don’t see the miscellaneous creativity striking like lighting when seeing you.

_What you have_, I wonder, because I don’t have it.

_What you have_, I look for, because it’s missing. A piece in my puzzle, lost somewhere while traveling the stars in a well made Blue-Tardis Canoe.

I wonder, behind the scenes, while watching you dance, red and black whirling, meshing together, what you have, that, making you shine in the stage of my wondrous world.

* * *

That, _what you have_, that I desire, that, _what you have_, that I wonder, that, _what you have_, that I’m missing.

That, _what you have_, shall never be mine, shall never be ours.

* * *

I've been wanting to write a poem for some days now, since I got into this kind of  writers/bloggers kind of community called [Writing 201: Poetry](https://dailypost.wordpress.com/dp_assignment/welcome-to-writing-201-poetry/), and I've been receiving their daily email with the topics for the daily poem, but (and of course this is an excuse) I've been too busy to write a daily poem, not because of not wanting to or the lack of desire, simply, well, hadn't started. This poem is not for that daily poem, I just tackled into some sparkling inspiration generated by some random thing, as usual, and this is the result, enjoy !
